Helen, I'm Dr. Jonathan Barker, pastor here at Amazing Grace Baptist Church in Mount area, North Carolina.
I would like to personally thank you for taking out time today to tune in to our preaching podcast.
We hope that this message will be a great encouragement to your heart today.
Share my chapter number eight, verse number 20.
The harvest is passed.
The summer is ended and we are not saved.
It's a short verse.
Let's read it again.
The harvest is past, the summer is ended and we are not saved.
I wanna talk to you about this thought for just a little while tonight.
Do we really care?
He said the harvest is past, man.
The summer's ended and they're still not saved.
Do we really care tonight, Father, you know, the need of the service and
God, I thank you, Lord, for your blessings.
I thank you, God, for a great day thus far in your house.
I pray that over the next few minutes, God, that you had helped me to relate to the people, God, the things that you've given me and the way that you've worked in my heart this week as I've studied this.
God, Father, may we get a burden for those that surround us, lost.
and on the road to hell.
God, may we really care about souls that's dying and going to hell.
God will be careful to give you the praise.
In Jesus' name, amen, and amen.
You can be seated tonight.
Again, our text verse says, the harvest is past, the summer is ended, and we are not saved.
When we come to our text, we find the prophet Jeremiah is preaching in Jerusalem to people who are not right with God.
Hearing chapter number eight, verse number 10, the Bible said, Dias, therefore will I give their wives unto others and their fields to them that shall inherit thee up.
For everyone from the least, even unto the greatest is given to covetousness.
From the prophet, even unto the priest, everyone dilleth falsely.
As a result, God wanted them.
I'm wanted or warned them that if they didn't get right, they would pay
the consequences for not being right with him.
So much so, that in verse number 13, God says, because of your rebellion, there shall be no grapes on the vine, nor figs on the tree, and leaf shall fade.
In essence, he is warning that they will suffer a lack of harvest due to their rebellion and disobedience.
This brings us to the paralyzing statement in verse
Number 20, the harvest is passed.
The summer is ended and we are not saved.
This first shows us my way of introduction.
there's a Lord worth being served.
There is a message worth being shared, and there is a tear worth being shared.
What are they saying?
They're saying, the harvest is past, the summer is ended, and we are still not saying.
I'll give you three things, and we'll go home tonight.
As we look at this verse, I would say number one, there is a time that should
turn us.
There is a time that should concern us.
Can I say this to you tonight?
Let me talk to you in 10 minutes and I'll tell you what you're concerned about.
There is a time we should be concerned
about some things tonight.
He is speaking of harvest time in our text and a time that he says is past as we look deeper into the truth.
We see that he is saying this, this is a time that is reflected nationally.
What did he say?
He said the harvest
is passed.
He is speaking here of a definite time and one that is reflected nationally.
You see in the context of the passage, he is speaking to the entire nation of Israel.
He is speaking to the kings.
He's speaking to the queens, to the leaders, to the boys, the girls, the middle class, the entire nation of Israel.
No one is excluded from this broad statement.
It includes everyone.
and it is reflected nationally when he says the harvest is passed.
The same can't easily be said about our nation today.
Can I say it this way?
It seems that the harvest is passed.
I thought about this.
I've never seen a time when people are so hard to the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ.
You remember me making this statement while we was in Mexico, man, you could give out a gospel track and they would stop what they was doing and they would sit down and they would read that track.
Man, you give out one in America today and what did they do?
They throw it down and keep going.
He said, Prich, what are you saying?
It's a time that is reflected nationally today.
Notice again, the words, the harvest is passed.
The harvest is passed.
In fact, the harvest time is passing right before our very eyes and indeed it is being reflected both nationally and internationally today.
I began doing some study this week and here's what I found out according to Bible analysis online.
In June of 2025, about 3.4 billion people, roughly 42% of the world's population, living in unreached people groups with little or no access to the gospel.
These are populations lacking of self-sustaining community of believers to share the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ in their community.
You say, Pricha, what are you saying?
Here's what I'm saying today.
Roughly 42% of the people of the world today has never heard the gospel.
You say, well, Pricha, I care.
Do we really care?
You say, well, Pricha, we had a $5,000 mission solved for him today.
I'll understand that, but let's be honest with ourselves.
If that was our kids, if that was our parents, if that was our family in a foreign field today, and they had never heard the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, would we have gave more?
Oh, it deals with the time that's internationally and nationally.
Why this statistic matters, the estimate
highlights the continuing global missionary need despite the centuries of Christian witnesses.
I'm gonna remind you of what the Bible said in Matthew chapter 9 verse number 37.
He said the harvest truly is plenius, but the laborers are a few.
You know what he's saying?
He's saying the answer.
There are those who would get saved.
If somebody would just share the gospel with them.
If somebody would just tell them about the Lord Jesus Christ.
The time is reflected nationally, but can I say this?
Also, the harvest is fast.
The time is reflected personally.
It's reflected personally tonight.
While it's a grim reality that the world is perishing is even a greater reality than our next door neighbor, our next of Kiana, maybe even our own children are lost without God and is headed to a place called hell.
When we think about the harvest being passed, it should open our eyes.
When we think about the Bible saying, the harvest truly is plentyous.
You know what he's saying?
He's saying to us, people would come to
No God, if somebody would just tell them, if somebody would just tell them, if somebody would just share the gospel with them, it's a time reflected nationally, but it's a time reflected personally.
Do you realize that though there are many people who do go to church, there are more that do not go to church?
You say, well, preacher, there's a lot in Surrey County that goes to church, but there's so many that don't.
Close to 75,000 in our county today.
I guarantee you, there wasn't many if any churches in Surrey County today that even had close to 1,000 in attendance.
You say, preacher, what do you mean?
I'm saying, the time is reflected personally.
Hey, the harvest is passing, guys.
The harvest.
is passing us.
Our text should prompt us to step out of our comfort zone and recognize the pressing need of the hour.
The harvest is to be reaped and the time to reap it is right now.
Number one, there's a time that should concern us.
Number two, can I say this?
And honestly, we could preach all day on the time that should concern us.
We could go to the book of Revelation.
We could talk about how I truly believe the coming of the Lord is at hand.
I believe it could happen at any given moment.
Are you hearing me?
This time should concern us.
Number two, watch this.
There's a truth that should consume us.
There is a truth that should consume us.
You say, well, what is it?
What did the Bible say?
The summer is ended.
The prophet Jeremiah has just spoken of it, the seriousness of the harvest.
But now he begins to deal with the season of the harvest.
The very season, can I just say this to you, there is season to harvesting things.
The very season of it.
Can I show you two things quickly?
He speaks of a specific season.
What does he say in our text?
The summer is ended.
In those words, the prophet is speaking of a specific season.
You see, he in essence is explaining the reason that the harvest is past is because the summer has ended.
The reason the harvest is gone is because the season has changed.
I began studying this and here's what I found out.
In the days of our text, the harvest of wheat was between May and June.
Past June, it became so dry and the sun became so hot that it cooked till they would say that it would cook the wheat.
Therefore, when the summer ended,
The harvest was passed.
The harvest was passed as the season had come to an end.
That is exactly what the Prophet is describing here.
He is informing us that just as there is a season for harvesting plants, there is a season for harvesting people.
Can I say that again?
Just as sure as there is a season for harvesting plants, there is a season for harvesting people.
I'll just say this to you.
You'll not lead them to the Lord when they're dead and gone.
You'll not lead them to the Lord when they've been involved in a serious accident.
And they lay in a coma, unresponsive.
You'll not lead them to the Lord when a brain tumor is healed.
And they lay unresponsive.
You see, there is a specific season.
Just as there's a season to harvest seeds.
There's a season to harvest souls.
Yes, there is a specific season.
Listen to what the Bible said in John chapter number nine.
I must work the works of him that sent me.
While it is day, the night cometh, when no man can work, the fact of the matter is that there is something after this lie.
Thus there is a particular time to work, weep and win.
The harvest one day will be passed because the summer one day will be ended.
One day the summer will end.
He speaks of a specific season, but he also speaks of a short season.
Not only a specific season, but a very short season.
Notice again, the words of our text, the summer is ended.
The summer is ended.
In the days of our text, the harvest season lasted from May to June.
There were only two months together, the harvest from the field.
Someone as well said to us, there is no fear that the church won't succeed, but that the church will succeed.
And only those things that really don't matter.
Can I say that again tonight?
There is no fear that the church won't succeed, but that the church will succeed in only those things that really don't matter.
That really don't matter.
Can I just say something to you tonight?
It's not about being put in a Sunday school class.
It's not about being put in a place of leadership.
That's not what it's about tonight.
It's about looking at the Lord of the harvest and saying, here I am.
I, how be the one that goes?
Why?
Because this is a short season that we have.
It's a short season we have.
Robert Moffitt said it this way.
We shall have all eternity to celebrate our victories.
but one short hour before the sun sets in which to win the lost.
We'll have all eternity to celebrate our victories and we will, brother Stan, but only one, only one short hour before the sun sets to win the lost.
So preacher, I've got my whole life to win the lost, but what is your whole life?
It's even a vapor that appeared for a little time.
and then banish it away.
It's a short season.
If we're going to win the lost, then we must win them now.
If we're going to get them in, then we must get them in now.
If we're going to bring them home, then we must bring them now.
For he speaks of a specific season.